Operations Management: Oil and Gas Report Introduction Operations management is a branch of management that deals with the designing and supervision of operational processes in a business organization. Objectives of Operations Management It has been established that operations management is charged with specific duties in an organization that relates to the production of goods and services. Principles of operations management are applicable through the management system in accordance with the sub departments of operations management. Advantages and Disadvantages of Operations Management Operations management derives a lot of benefits to an organization through the application of the functions of operation managers. In pursuit of these objectives, operations management in any given organization has responsibilities that include “planning, organizing, staffing, leading, and controlling” elements in the organization’s production processes (Haynes 4). Strategies in operations management are therefore those approaches that are implemented by the management in its functions such as planning, organization and control among others. Having its direct impact on the production processes, principles of inventory management are critical to the parent operations management. Following the objective of operations management to meet customer’s expectations, improvements in the relationship between organization and the customers forms a part of the management’s strategies. History of Operations Management The history of operations management stems all the way back to the eighteenth century. Operations management also outlines strategies for controlling production costs of its processes which is made through provisions for the production chain. Operations management therefore involves the management of “people, materials, equipments and information resources that a business may need” (Sox 1) in its daily activities. Operations management ensures “effective management of resources and activities that produce or deliver goods and services of any business” (Sox 1). According to Elearn, planning and control is a necessity for the operations management following the process of designing operations in an organization. One of the departments of operations management with an established principle is the “process capacity management” (Bruner 128). Operations management covers the responsibility over all processes that involve the production of goods and services as well as the delivery of such productions to the final consumers. Major interest was then developed in the management of human resource as an approach to operations management. The major down fall of operations management is the conflicting interest that is imposed by the various functions of the management. It is also the duty of the operations management to ensure that processes are not stagnated at a given level of efficiency and productivity. Inventory management also calls for proper management of interaction time with customers during service delivery. The operations management is charged with the responsibility of making plans for the processes that are involved in the movement of inventory through out an organization. Operations management was then advanced to consider strategies in production processes that would give companies advantage in the market for their products. Once planning has been done as to the activities, locations, time and the items to be produced, the operations management assumes the role of organizing processes.